Update Android docs (#62)
microsoft/vcpkg-docs: vcpkg/users/platforms/android.md

---
# Android

> The following triplets x64-android, arm-neon-android, and arm64-android are supported in vcpkg CI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The triplets x64-android, arm-neon-android, and arm64-android are tested by vcpkg's public catalog CI.
```

   Or:

   ```bash
   export ANDROID_NDK_HOME=/home/your-account/Android/android-ndk-r25c
   ```

Note: you will still need to install g++ or a C++ compiler that targets your host for any host dependencies.

## vcpkg triplets and their corresponding android ABI

There are six different Android ABIs, each of which maps to a vcpkg triplet. The following table outlines the mapping from vcpkg architectures to android architectures:

|VCPKG_TARGET_TRIPLET       | ANDROID_ABI          | ANDROID_ARM_NEON |
|---------------------------|----------------------|------------------|
|arm64-android              | arm64-v8a            |                  |
|arm-android                | armeabi-v7a          | OFF              |
|arm-neon-android           | armeabi-v7a          | ON               |
|x64-android                | x86_64               |                  |
|x86-android                | x86                  |                  |
|armv6-android              | armeabi              |                  |

## Install libraries for Android using vcpkg

> Example for jsoncpp for `x64-android`:

Reviewer: This example seems to just be "how to use manifest mode", without much android-specific help.

Can we merge this into the docker example, with the result being one example that uses Docker and manifest mode? Something like "In this container, create this file, then run `vcpkg install --triplet x64-android`.

   Or:

   ```bash
   export ANDROID_NDK_HOME=/home/your-account/Android/android-ndk-r25c
   ```

Note: you will still need to install g++ or a C++ compiler that targets your host for any host dependencies.

## vcpkg triplets and their corresponding android ABI

There are six different Android ABIs, each of which maps to a vcpkg triplet. The following table outlines the mapping from vcpkg architectures to android architectures:

|VCPKG_TARGET_TRIPLET       | ANDROID_ABI          | ANDROID_ARM_NEON |
|---------------------------|----------------------|------------------|
|arm64-android              | arm64-v8a            |                  |
|arm-android                | armeabi-v7a          | OFF              |
|arm-neon-android           | armeabi-v7a          | ON               |
|x64-android                | x86_64               |                  |
|x86-android                | x86                  |                  |
|armv6-android              | armeabi              |                  |

## Building Android libraries in a Docker container

You can build Android libraries, such as `jsoncpp` in a Ubuntu Docker container.

> `Dockerfile`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `Dockerfile` with the following contents:
```

```
FROM ubuntu:22.04

ENV DEBIAN_FRONTEND noninteractive

RUN \
  apt-get update && \
  apt-get -y upgrade

RUN \
  apt-get -y --no-install-recommends install git g++ wget curl zip vim pkg-config tar cmake unzip ca-certificates

# Download Android NDK
RUN \
  wget https://dl.google.com/android/repository/android-ndk-r25c-linux.zip && \
  unzip android-ndk-r25c-linux.zip

ENV ANDROID_NDK_HOME /android-ndk-r25c

RUN \
  git clone https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg && \
  cd vcpkg && \
  ./bootstrap-vcpkg.sh

> WORKDIR /vcpkg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ENV PATH "/vcpkg:$PATH"

RUN mkdir /project

WORKDIR /project
```

```

> To build docker:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build the image and launch a new container:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```sh
````

docker build . -t "vcpkg-android"
docker run -it "vcpkg-android" bash
```

`vcpkg.json`
```json
{
  "dependencies": [
    "jsoncpp"
  ],
  "builtin-baseline": "1e68748a7c6914642ed686b2e19c3d688bca150a"
}
```

> In this container, create a manifest, and run `vcpkg install --triplet x64-android`

Reviewer: ````
In the container, create `/project/vcpkg.json` with the following contents:
```json
{
  "dependencies": [
    "jsoncpp"
  ],
  "builtin-baseline": "1e68748a7c6914642ed686b2e19c3d688bca150a"
}
```

Finally, run `vcpkg install --triplet x64-android` to build `jsoncpp` for android.
````

|---------------------------|----------------------|
|arm64-android              | arm64-v8a            |
|arm-android                | armeabi-v7a          |

> |arm-neon-android (w/neon)  | armeabi-v7a          |

Reviewer: The lines above this say "There are four different Android ABIs,..." which seems incorrect now (6?).

Also, this table should have an extra column added to clarify the difference between `arm-android` and `arm-neon-android`. (`ANDROID_NEON_ENABLED`?)

Author: fixed!

|x64-android                | x86_64               |
|x86-android                | x86                  |
|armv6-android              | armeabi              |

> ## Install libraries for Android using vcpkg

Reviewer: Can we change this example to use manifest mode?

Author: done

Example for jsoncpp:

```bash
./vcpkg install jsoncpp --triplet arm-android
# or like this
./vcpkg install jsoncpp:arm64-android
./vcpkg install jsoncpp:x86-android
./vcpkg install jsoncpp:x64-android
```

## Building Android libraries in a Docker container

> You can also build Android libraries in a Ubuntu Docker container (same environment as our CI).

Reviewer: I don't think we should document a subpath into our CI scripts here (that we're likely to move!) -- can we trim down our Dockerfile and include it inline here (since docs readers aren't building the universe)?

</details>

> ## Consume libraries using vpckg, cmake and the android toolchain

Reviewer: Why is this section no longer required?

Author: Now, the android toolchain `android.cmake` directly inspects `ANDROID_NDK_HOME` to include the Android NDK toolchain, so there is no need to add it separately. Also, settings such as `ANDROID_ABI` are set in the triplet.

The folder [docs/examples/vcpkg_android_example_cmake](https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg-docs/tree/main/vcpkg/examples/vcpkg_android_example_cmake) provides a working example, with an android library that consumes the jsoncpp library:

#### Details

> - The [CMakeLists](https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg-docs/tree/main/vcpkg/examples/vcpkg_android_example_cmake/CMakeLists.txt) simply uses `find_package` and `target_link_library`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [CMakeLists.txt](https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg-docs/tree/main/vcpkg/examples/vcpkg_android_example_cmake/CMakeLists.txt) simply uses `find_package` and `target_link_library`
```

- The [compile.sh](https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg-docs/tree/main/vcpkg/examples/vcpkg_android_example_cmake/compile.sh) script enables you to select any matching pair of "android abi" /  "vcpkg triplet" and to test the compilation

- The dummy [my_lib.cpp](https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg-docs/tree/main/vcpkg/examples/vcpkg_android_example_cmake/my_lib.cpp) file uses the jsoncpp library

> [!NOTE]
> This example only compiles an Android library, as the compilation of a full-fledged Android App is beyond the scope of this document.

### Test on an example: `vcpkg_android.cmake`

Test using [vcpkg_android.cmake](https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg-docs/tree/main/vcpkg/examples/vcpkg_android_example_cmake_script/cmake/vcpkg_android.cmake).

The folder [vcpkg_android_example_cmake_script](https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg-docs/tree/main/vcpkg/examples/vcpkg_android_example_cmake_script) provides the same example, and uses a cmake script in order to simplify the usage.

#### Details

> - The main [CMakeLists](https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg-docs/tree/main/vcpkg/examples/vcpkg_android_example_cmake_script/CMakeLists.txt) loads [vcpkg_android.cmake](https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg-docs/tree/main/vcpkg/examples/vcpkg_android_example_cmake_script/cmake/vcpkg_android.cmake) if the flag `VCPKG_TARGET_ANDROID` is set:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The main [CMakeLists.txt](https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg-docs/tree/main/vcpkg/examples/vcpkg_android_example_cmake_script/CMakeLists.txt) loads [vcpkg_android.cmake](https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg-docs/tree/main/vcpkg/examples/vcpkg_android_example_cmake_script/cmake/vcpkg_android.cmake) if the flag `VCPKG_TARGET_ANDROID` is set:
```
